Story 1.1.1

Step-by-Step Instructions to Complete Story 1.1.1: Install VS Code Extension Development Tools
Install Node.js and npm
Download and install Node.js (version 14.19.0 or higher) from nodejs.org
Verify installation with: node -v and npm -v
Install Git
Download and install Git from git-scm.com
Verify installation with: git --version
Install Yeoman and VS Code Extension Generator
Open a terminal/command prompt
Run: npm install -g yo generator-code
Verify installation with: yo --version
Install TypeScript
Run: npm install -g typescript
Verify installation with: tsc --version
Install VS Code Extension Manager (vsce)
Run: npm install -g @vscode/vsce
Verify installation with: vsce --version
Install VS Code
Download and install VS Code from code.visualstudio.com
Launch VS Code to verify installation
Install Helpful VS Code Extensions for Extension Development
Open VS Code
Install "ESLint" extension
Install "JavaScript Debugger" extension
Create a Development Workspace
Create a new folder for your extension development
Open the folder in VS Code
Verify Development Environment
Create a simple TypeScript file to test TypeScript compilation
Run a simple npm command to verify npm is working correctly
Mark Task as Complete
Update your project plan to mark task 1.1.1 as complete


npm init -y  # Create package.json if you don't have one
npm install --save-dev jest ts-jest @types/jest typescript
yo code
? What type of extension do you want to create? New Extension (TypeScript)
? What's the name of your extension? vscode-agentic-ai-assistant
? What's the identifier of your extension? vscode-agentic-ai-assistant
? What's the description of your extension? An agentic AI coding assistant for VS Code
? Initialize a git repository? Yes
? Which bundler to use? webpack
? Which package manager to use? npm

code ./vscode-agentic-ai-assistant
 npm install --save-dev @types/node @types/vscode
 npm install --save-dev eslint @typescript-eslint/parser @typescript-eslint/eslint-plugin
 cd vscode-agentic-ai-assistant
 npm run compile